Team members: 
Leon Chu
Austin Harmon
Ibrahima Doumbia

Abstract:
As part of our Database Management class, our team has created a hotel reservation system that will allow a hotel staff member to create, read, update, 
or delete any reservation within the system. A user may run into an issue where they do not have all the rights to be able to make changes 
within the reservation system as a manager or supervisor would. Also, not all reservations can be modified 24 hours prior to check-in time.

Abstract(Proposed):
The objective of the project is to design Hotel Reservation Application(System) which allows the manager to keep the record of the hotel and the guests(customers).
The project is (will be implemented) in Microsoft SQL server as the database for the project.
Our motivation for the project came from our enthusiasm and strong urge to learn how to design and implement the project in Microsoft SQL server.
The Hotel Reservation System project mainly consists of two types of users. The guests(customers) who access the information provided by the system and the employee
who modifies and updates the information.
All the data needed for the application(system) is stored in the form of tables in the Microsoft SQL server (year goes here).
The report contains the details of all the tasks carried out during the entire system(software) development life cycle of the Hotel Reservation project. 
This document depicts all the details of the project.


Mission Statement:
The purpose of the hotel reservation database system is to offer a practical solution for prospective hotel guests to efficiently plan their vacation*
while maintaining efficiency for hotel staff to manage all reservations. This in turn can increase both profits as a business as well as improving overall
guest experience. 

Mission Objective:
To maintain (enter, update, delete) data on hotel guests account information
To maintain (enter, update, delete) data on employee
To maintain (enter, update, delete) data on available rooms
To maintain (enter, update, delete) data on payment information
To maintain (enter, update, delete) data on room rate
To maintain (enter, update, delete) data on excursions
To maintain (enter, update, delete) data on rental equipmment

To perform searches on hotel guests account information
To perform searches on employee
To perform searches on available rooms
To perform searches on payment information
To perform searches on room rates
To perform searches on excursions
To perform searches on rental equipment
To perform searchs on hotel

To track the status of available rooms for rent
To track how many guests are staying at the hotel
To track the status on rental equipment
To track the status on excursions

To report on hotel guests account information
To report on employee
To report on available rooms
To report on payment information
To report on room rate
To report on excursions
To report on rental equipment
To report on hotel

Proposed Use Cases for Hotel Database Management System:
Actor/User: Hotel Guest
Hotel guest searches for available rooms.
  1. User enters dates and number of guests they want to stay
  2. Results with available rooms on the specified dates are displayed
  3. Prompt the user to select a room based on availability and rate
  4. Total price for stay will be displayed
  5. User will confirm selection
Hotel guest creates an account if they are a new customer
  1. User creates a username 
  2. User creates a password
  3. Prompt user to enter full name, address, telephone number
  4. Display all guest information entered 
  5. User clicks on "Confirm" to confirm all information entered is correct
Hotel guest logs into account if they are a returning customer.
  1. If the user is a returning customer, prompt the user to enter their login information
Hotel guest reserves a room.
  1. Prompt the user to select a room based on availability and rate
  2. User clicks on "Confirm" to confirm room selection
Hotel guest enters payment information.
  1. Prompt the user to enter their full name that appears on their credit/debit card
  2. Prompt the user to enter their credit/debit card number and securtity code
  3. Prompt the user to enter the billing address
Hotel guest updates account.
  1. If the user is a returning guest, prompt the user to confirm current information or update information if neccessary
Hotel guest adds an additional room.
  11. If number of guests exceed room capacity, prompt the user to add an additional room if needed
Hotel guest deletes a room reservation.
  1. Once a guest is logged in, display a list of all current reservations
  2. Allow the user to delete an existing reservation from the sytem if needed
Hotel guest confirms the reservation
  1. Display all guest information on confirmation page including name, payment information, selected room, and total price
  2. Prompt the user to click on "Confirm" to confirm all information and finalize the reservation
Hotel guest rents rental equipment
  1. Hotel guest searches for available rental equipment
  2. A list of available rental equipment will be displayed
  3. Hotel guest selects rental equipment from the list
  4. A price for that rental equipment will be displayed
  5. Hotel guest will select date rented and date returned for the equipment
  6. Hotel guests enters payment information
  7. Hotel guest clicks "confirm" for payment
  8. A payment confirmation number will be displayed
Hotel guest books an excursion online
  1. Hotel guest searches for available excursions
  2. A list of available excursions will be displayed
  3. Hotel guest selects an excursion from the list
  4. Price and duration for that excursion will be displayed
  5. Hotel guest will select the date for the excursion
  6. Hotel guests enters payment information
  7. Hotel guest clicks "confirm" for payment
  8. A payment confirmation number will be displayed 
Hotel guest cancels renting a rental equipment
  1. Hotel guest enters payment confirmation number
  2. A list of all rental equipment will be displayed
  3. Hotel guest clicks on "Cancel" and then "Confirm" to confirm the cancelation
Hotel guest cancels an excursion
  1. Hotel guest enters payment confirmation number
  2. A list of all excursions will be displayed
  3. Hotel guest clicks on "Cancel" and then "Confirm" to confirm the cancelation
Hotel guest deletes address information
  1. Hotel guest deletes address information
  2. Hotel guest clicks on “Confirm” to confirm the changes
Hotel guest searches for hotel based on the hotel type
  1. Hotel guests searches for hotel based on property type
  2. A list of all hotels based on the type entered will be displayed


Actor/User: Hotel Employee
Hotel employee searches all available rooms.
  1. Employee click on "Search" button 
  2. Employee will enter the dates needed for reservation
  3. A list of available rooms for the dates specified will be displayed
 Hotel employee books a room for a guest
  1. Employee selects room based on availability and rate
  2. Employee clicks on "Confirm"
 Hotel employee adds a guests information (first and last name, DOB, gender)
  1. Employee will enter first name, last name, phone number, address, email address, DOB, gender, payment information
  2. Once entered, all information will be displayed
  3. Employee clicks on "confirm"  
 Hotel employee checks in guest
  1. Employee searches for reservation by reservation number or name
  2. Employee assigns a room number to the guest and marks it as occupied
  3. All guest information will be displayed
  4. Employee clicks on "confirm"
 Hotel employee deletes a reservation for a customer.
  1. A guest decideds they no longer want to stay, employee searches for reservation by reservation number or name
  2. Employee requests for manager approval for refund
  3. Employee marks room from occupied to vacant
  4. Employee clicks on "confirm"
 Hotel employee adds an available room.
  1. Employee searches for all unavaialble rooms first
  2. Employee marks unavailable rooms to vacant
  3. Employee clicks on "confirm"
 Hotel employee searches for guest by first and last name becuase they lost their room key 
  1. Employee enters first and last name of guest
  2. All guest information will be displayed including name, DOB, email address, phone number, billing address to confirm identity
 Hotel employee edits guest information
  1. Hotel employee searches for the guest by name who needs to update their information
  2. Hotel employee needs to update or edit guest information in the system
  3. Employee updates information and all updated information will be displayed
  4. Employee clicks on "confirm"
 Hotel employee removes a guest from the reservation system after check-out is completed
  1. Hotel employee searches for the guest by name or room number
  2. All guest information will be displayed to confirm correct guest is selected
  3. Hotel employee removes guest from the reservation system to show that they are no longer a current guest staying at the hotel
  4. Hotel employee marks the room as vacant
  5. Employee clicks on "confirm"
 Hotel employee adds additional day(s) to a current reservation
  1. Employee searches for guest by room number
  2. Employee adds additional day to the current reservation
  3. Display additional cost for extra nights stayed
  4. Employee clicks on "confirm"
 Hotel guest returns rental equipment to employee
  1. Employee searches for payment confirmation number provided by the guest
  2. A list of all equipment that was rented will be displayed
  3. Employee confirms the return by clicking on "Returned" to make the equipment available again
Hotel employee books an excursion for a guest
  1. Hotel employee searches for available excursions
  2. A list of available excursions will be displayed
  3. Hotel employee selects an excursion from the list
  4. Price and duration for that excursion will be displayed
  5. Hotel employee will select the date for the excursion
  6. Hotel employee enters payment information
  7. Hotel employee clicks "confirm" for payment
Hotel employee cancels renting a rental equipment
  1. Hotel employee enters payment confirmation number
  2. A list of all rental equipment will be displayed
  3. Hotel employee clicks on "Cancel" and then "Confirm" to confirm the cancelation
Hotel employee cancels an excursion
  1. Hotel employee enters payment confirmation number
  2. A list of all excursions will be displayed
  3. Hotel employee clicks on "Cancel" and then "Confirm" to confirm the cancelation
Hotel emloyee searches for hotel based on hotel ID
  1. Hotel employee enters hotel ID
  2. A list of information regarding that hotel ID will be displayed
Hotel employee searches for hotel based on hotel type
  1. Hotel employee searches for hotel based on type
  2. A list of all hotels will be displayed based on the type that is searched for
Hotel employee searches for total number of guests staying at the hotel within a specific date range
  1. Hotel employee enters specific date range to search for total number of guests staying during that time period
  2. A list of total number of guests will be displayed
Hotel employee searches for total number of reservations at a hotel
  1. Hotel employee enteres specific date range to be searched
  2. A list of all reservations for entered date range will be displayed
Hotel employee searches for all payments made within a specific date range
  1. Hotel employee enters date range to search for all payments within the date range entered
  2. A list of all payments for that specific date range entered will be displayed
Hotel employee wants to search for total number of hotels within a specific state
  1. Hotel employee searches hotel based on state
  2. A list of all hotels based on the location entered will be displayed
Hotel employee changes a room status to occupied after a guest checks in
  1. Hotel employee researches for a room based on the room ID
  2. Hotel employee changes the room status from vacant to occupied
 
 Actor/User: Hotel Manager
 Hotel manager overrides a cancelation and cancles a payment
  1. Manager sign into the system with login credentials
  2. Search for guest by reservation number or by room number
  3. Display all guest information
  4. Manager overrides cancelation by clicking on "override"
  4. Manager clicks on "confirm"
 Hotel manager can add a new employee to the system
  1. Manager clicks on "add employee"
  2. Manager enters new employee information (full name, address, DOB, gender, email, title)
  3. System will display all information entered for new employee
  4. Manager will click on "confirm" and an employee ID will automatically generate and be displayed 
 Hotel manager can edit employee informaton
  1. Manager searches for employee by employee ID #
  2. Employees information will be displayed
  3. Manager updates information
  4. Employee information will  be displayed
  5. Manger clicks on "confirm"
 Hotel manager can remove an employee from the system
  1. Manager searches for employee by employee ID
  2. Employee information will be displayed based on employee ID
  3. Manager will click on "delete" to remove the employee from the system
  4. Manager will then click on "confirm"
 Hotel manager can generate a monthly report of all reservations
  1. Manager clicks on "report"
  2. Manager enters a specific date range to generate a report
  3. A list of all reservations for the dates entered will be displayed
 Hotel manager can adjust room rate for all rooms based on room type
  1. Managers searches for rooms based on room type
  2. A list of all rooms based on room type will be displayed
  3. Manager selects room based on room type, clicks on "adjust rate" and enters the new rate
  4. Manager clicks on "confirm" and new rate will be applied to rooms based on room type
 Hotel manager adjusts employee pay rate or salary
  1. Hotel manger searches for employee by employee ID #
  2. Employee information will be displayed
  3. Hotel manager enters new pay rate
  4. Manager clicks on "confirm"
 Hotel manager adjusts employee schedule
  1. Hotel manager searches for employee by employee ID #
  2. Employee information will be displayed
  3. Hotel manager clicks on "edit schedule"
  4. Hotel manager modifies employee schedule
  5. Hotel manager clicks on "confirm"
 Hotel manager searches for hotel based on state
  1. Hotel manager searches for hotel based on state
  2. A list of information regarding hotels in that state will be displayed
 Hotel manager changes the prices of the rental equipment
  1. Hotel manager searches for all rental equipment
  2. A list of all rental equipment types will be displayed along with their current price
  3. Manager can select whichever equipment that needs the price to be changed
  4. Manager clicks "Confirm" to confirm the price change
 Hotel manager changes the prices of the excursions
  1. Hotel manager searches for all excursions
  2. A list of all excursions types will be displayed along with their current price
  3. Manager can select whichever excursions that needs the price to be changed
  4. Manager clicks "Confirm" to confirm the price change
Hotel manager adds a new rental equipment that can be rented by a hotel guest
  1. Hotel manager clicks on "Add new equipment"
  2. Hotel manager enters information about the new equipment
  3. A list of all newly added equipment will then be displayed
  3. Hotel manager clicks on "Confirm" to confirm the changes
Hotel manager adds a new excursion
  1. Hotel manager clicks on "Add new excursion"
  2. Hotel manager enters information about the new excursion
  3. A list of all newly added excursions will then be displayed
  3. Hotel manager clicks on "Confirm" to confirm the changes
Hotel manager deletes a rental equipment that can be rented by a hotel guest
  1. Hotel manager clicks on "Delete equipment"
  2. A list of all equipment to be deleted will then be displayed
  3. Hotel manager selects the equipment to be deleted
  4. Hotel manager clicks on "Confirm" to confirm the changes
 Hotel manager deletes an excursion
  1. Hotel manager clicks on "Delete excursion"
  2. A list of all excursiont to be deleted will then be displayed
  3. Hotel manager selects the excursion to be deleted
  4. Hotel manager clicks on "Confirm" to confirm the changes
 Hotel manager deletes street address from a hotel
  1. Hotel manager searches for hotel
  2. Hotel manager deleted address and clicks on "Confirm" to confirm the changes
 Hotel manager updates phone number for hotel
  1. Hotel manager searches for hotel to update phone number
  2. Hotel manager enters new phone number
  3. Hotel manager clicks on "Confirm" to confirm the changes
 Hotel manager obtains count of all employees at the hotel
  1. Hotel manager searches for the total emnployees in the hotel 
  2. Hotel manager enter the hotel name to get number of employees
  3. A total number of employees in the hotel is displayed.
 Hotel manager removes a room for maintenance purpose
  1. Hotel manager searches for a room by room ID
  2. Hotel manager selects the room to be removed
  3. Hotel manager clicks on 'confirm' to remove the room from the system
 
